Google Cloud is a suite of cloud computing services offered by Google that provides a series of modular cloud services including computing, data storage, data analytics, and machine learning, alongside a set of management tools. It runs on the same infrastructure that Google uses internally for its end-user products, such as Google Search, Gmail, and Google Docs, according to Verma et al. Registration requires a credit card or bank account details.
Google Cloud provides infrastructure as a service, platform as a service, and serverless computing environments.
In April 2008, Google announced App Engine, a platform for developing and hosting web applications in Google-managed data centers, which was the first cloud computing service from the company. The service became generally available in November 2011. Since the announcement of App Engine, Google added multiple cloud services to the platform.
Google Cloud  includes Google Cloud public cloud infrastructure, as well as Google Workspace (G Suite), enterprise versions of Android and ChromeOS, and application programming interfaces (APIs) for machine learning and enterprise mapping services. Since at least 2022, Google's official materials have stated that "Google Cloud" is the new name for "Google Cloud Platform," which may cause naming confusion.

Google lists over 100 products under the Google Cloud brand. Some of the key services are listed below.

App Engine – Platform as a Service to deploy applications developed with Java, PHP, Node.js, Python, C#, .Net, Ruby and Go programming languages
Compute Engine – Infrastructure as a Service to run Microsoft Windows and Linux virtual machines.
Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) or GKE on-prem offered as part of Anthos platform – Containers as a Service based on Kubernetes
Cloud Functions – Functions as a Service to run event-driven code written in Node.js, Java, Python, or Go
Cloud Run – Compute execution environment based on Knative Offered as Cloud Run (fully managed) or as Cloud Run for Anthos. It currently supports GCP, AWS and VMware management.

Cloud Storage – Object storage with integrated edge caching to store unstructured data
Cloud SQL – Database as a Service based on MySQL, PostgreSQL and Microsoft SQL Server
Cloud Bigtable – Managed NoSQL database service
Cloud Spanner – Horizontally scalable, strongly consistent, relational database service
Cloud Datastore – NoSQL database for web and mobile applications
Persistent Disk – Block storage for Compute Engine virtual machines
Cloud Memorystore – Managed in-memory data store based on Redis and Memcached
Local SSD – High-performance, transient, local block storage
Filestore – High-performance file storage for Google Cloud users
AlloyDB – Fully managed PostgreSQL database service

VPC – Virtual Private Cloud for managing the software defined network of cloud resources
Cloud Load Balancing – Software-defined, managed service for load balancing the traffic
Cloud Armor – Web application firewall to protect workloads from DDoS attacks
Cloud CDN – Content Delivery Network based on Google's globally distributed edge points of presence
Cloud Interconnect – Service to connect a data center with Google Cloud
Cloud DNS – Managed, authoritative DNS hosting service running on the same infrastructure as Google
Network Service Tiers – Option to choose Premium vs Standard network tier for higher-performing network

BigQuery – Scalable, managed enterprise data warehouse for analytics
Cloud Dataflow – Managed service based on Apache Beam for stream and batch data processing
Cloud Data Fusion – A managed ETL service based on the Open Source Cask Data Application Platform
Dataproc – Big data platform for running Apache Hadoop and Apache Spark jobs
Cloud Composer – Managed workflow orchestration service built on Apache Airflow
Cloud Datalab – Tool for data exploration, analysis, visualization and machine learning. It is a fully managed Jupyter Notebook service.
Cloud Dataprep – Data service based on 